---
layout: page
##subheadline: "Melissa Pregasen"
#title: "There ain’t no party like a Greek Independence Day party"
teaser: "Egyptians party on Greek Independence Day."
date: 2018-03-05
categories:
  - curiosities
author: MelissaPregasen
tags:
  - Greece
  - Independence
  - Religion
  - Celebration
header: no
image:
  title: blog-images/Greek Independence.png <!-- for image-name.png, substitute name you've given your image file -->
  thumb: blog-images/image-name.png
  homepage: blog-images/image-name.png
  caption: Date of issue: April 8, 1907
---
The historically close relationship between Alexandria, Egypt and Greece was evident in the celebrations in Alexandria for Greek Independence Day on April 7. On Monday April 8, 1907, _The Egyptian Gazette_ reported celebrations across Egypt that took place because of the anniversary of Greek independence. A Greek revolt began in March of 1821 against the Turkish owned Peloponnese. Helped by Great Britain, France, and Russia, Greece defeated the Turks breaking them free from the Ottoman Empire. The declaration of independence took place on April 7, 1821, and eighty-six years later the glorious day is continually honored across Egypt.

The Evangelical Cathedral held a service with the Bishop of Tripoli with many honorable guests. According to the _Encyclopedia Britannica_, Greek Independence Day is also celebrated with the Greek Orthodox Church’s deemed day of Annunciation or the day Mary was told she would have the son of God. This day is not only politically celebrated, but religiously too.

Greek Independence Day is celebrated in Greece on March 25. However, the declaration for independence happened on April 7. The official national holiday in Greece and the actual date were both celebrated in Greece. I am very interested in how different cultures celebrate holidays. Thus, this article on the Greek holiday intrigued me. The relationship of the church with such a holiday is fascinating especially in such a modern year of 1907.
